Norges Teknisk-Naturvitenskaplige Universitet (NTNU)
TTM4100 Communication Services and Networks
2010 Spring
Without a DNS server, it is not possible to contact web servers. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
You have to use a browser ala Opera, Firefox or Internet explorer to retrieve an object from a web server. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
Forward error correction is a way to recover from packet loss. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
The two parameters that must be specified in order to instantiate a Java "socket" are destination host name/address and destination port number. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Client side delayed playout is data buffering to compensate for network-added jitter. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Network and link layer are always executed together. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
Within the same broadcast network, it is the IP network part of the destination address that identifies the receiver. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
DHCP can be used to assign default gatway and DNS server address. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
ARP is used to find the next hop when forwarding packets. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
If an organisation has licenced the network address space designated by 128.39.16.0/20, an IP packet addressed to 128.39.7.10 will not be sent to this organisation. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
All internet application protocols are text based. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
It is possible for a client to send e-mail over HTTP rather than SMTP. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
A HTTP web server uses persistent connections. The server spawns a separate process for each client that connects to the server. Each of these processes will have different server port numbers. oppretter en separat prosess for hver klient som kopler seg opp mot tjeneren. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
P2P file distribution. Upload rate server is 10Mbps and peers 1 Mbps. Download rate peers is 10Mbps. There are 100 peers and the file is 12,5 Mbytes. The minimum distribution time is about 100 s. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
SIP is used to transfer voice packets between two communicating peers. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
A BitTorrent peer A may upload to a peer B even if B is not sending anything to A. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
The DNS architecture is centralized around root servers. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
There are distributed applications that use neither TCP nor UDP. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
A browser will generate header lines dependent on browser type and version. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
The value of a DNS resource record of Type = MX is the hostname of the mail server. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
It is primarily the characteristics of the applications that determine the complexity of a reliable data transfer protocol. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
When a TCP host receives data from the network layer, it can identifiy the appropriate process to pass the data to by using the source port, source IP address and destination port. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
A web server using non-persistent connections runs slow-start for each message larger than MSS (maximum segment size). §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
A TCP transport layer sender window may contain both acknowledged and unacknowledge data. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
TCP provides a reliable, simplex service to the application layer. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
For every write() to a TCP streamsocket, there must be a corresponding read() at the other end to receive the data. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
The maximum data rate between two hosts communicating using TCP depends solely on the bandwidth of the underlying internetwork. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
The original TCP (without extensions) is best characterized as a pipelined, go-back-N protocol. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
The size of the largest segment a TCP sender will transmit, is limited by the lower layers. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
TCP has spesific protocol headers for connection set-up and close. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
In theory, packet switching can support more users than circuit switching. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
A datagram is a packet that is transferred independently of all other packets. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
The primary purpose of a router's main processor is to run management and routing software. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Two primary functions of a router's output adapter are link layer processing and network layer encapsulation. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
All routers only look at the network part and not the host part of the IP address. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
In a distance-vector routing algorithm each node has a map of the entire network and determines the shortest path from itself to all other nodes in the network. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
The distance vector routing algorithm is based on information received only from neighbours. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Two important reasons for organizing the Internet as a hierarchy of networks for the purpose of routing, are scale and administrative autonomy. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
The host component of a CIDR address of the form a.b.c.d/23 can contain addresses for appr. 500 hosts. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Network address translation (NAT) is used in the Internet to translate between IP addresses found in separate sub-networks. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
A node's LAN address used by the link layer is simply another form of the node's IP address. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
A CSMA/CD node constructs a frame, senses the channel idle, and transmits the frame. The node then knows for sure that the frame will arrive at the receiver within the same subnet. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
In a switch-based ethernet LAN there are no collision domains. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Detecting collisions in a wireless LAN is not always possible due to collision avoidance. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
Wireless 802.11 protocol header includes MAC addresses to both the access point and the first-hop router. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
For a given wireless modulation scheme, the higher the SNR (signal to noise ratio) the lower the BER (bit error rate). §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
In CDMA, the coded signal has a higher bandwidth than the original data being communicated. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
The entries in a switch table need to be configured by the network administrator. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
Considering the expression D * 2r XOR R as the mathematical representation of data with CRC bits appended. The CRC bit pattern represented by R is determined using modulo 2 arithmetic, wherein R is the remainder when a generator value, G, is divided into D * 2r. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
In a CAT-5 UTP ethernet installation all nodes are exactly 100 meters from the hub. The time it takes for a bit to propagate from hub to node for a 10BaseT ethernet is ten times longer than for a 100BaseT ethernet. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False