Norges Teknisk-Naturvitenskaplige Universitet (NTNU)
TTM4100 Communication Services and Networks
2011 Spring
A server program requests and receives services from a client program. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
Packet switching is always better than circuit switching. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
The application-layer message and the transport-layer header information together constitute the transport-layer segment. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
The total nodal delay is given by the sum of the processing delay, transmission delay and propagation delay. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
Store-and-forward transmission means that the switch must receive the entire packet before it can begin to transmit the first bit of the packet onto the outbound link. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Each router has a forwarding table that maps destination addresses to outbound links. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Tier-1 ISPs are directly connected to each of the other Tier-1 ISPs. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Transport Layer and Network Layer are always executed together. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
IP is a connection-oriented protocol. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
Internet DNS uses TCP. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
Web cashing can reduce the delay in receiving a requested object of a webpage. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
FTP uses TCP as its underlying transport protocol. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
HTTP decides how a Web page is interpreted by a Web browser. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
When a user requests a Web page, many TCP connections may be generated. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
File distribution using client-server architecture. Upload rate: server is 10Mbps and each client 1 Mbps. Download rate: each client is 10Mbps. There are 100 clients and the file is 12,5 Mbytes. The minimum distribution time is about 100 s. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
In BitTorrent, suppose Alice provides chunks to Bob throughout a 15-second interval. Then, Bob should provide chunks to Alice in the same interval. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
P2P cannot be used for instant messaging. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
A host can have more than one DNS name. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
In a POP3 transaction, the user agent issues commands, and the server responds to each command with a reply. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
SMTP is used to transfer mail from the sender's mail server to the recipient's mail server, and it is also used to transfer mail from the sender's user agent to the sender's mail server. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
A transport-layer protocol can provide reliable data transfer even if the underlying network layer is unreliable. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Suppose Host A sends two TCP segments back to back to Host B over a TCP connection. The first segment has sequence number 100; the second has sequence number 200. Then, there are 100 bytes in the first segment. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
In Go-back-N, the sender is allowed to transmit multiple packets (when available) without waiting for an acknowledgement from the receiver. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
The throughput of a TCP connection is typically a function of its round-trip time. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
When TCP is used, the TCP port number of the receiver cannot be different from the TCP port number of the sender. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
UDP is a connectionless transport protocol. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Suppose Host A is sending a large file to Host B over a TCP connection. If the sequence number for a segment of this connection is n, then the sequence number for the subsequent segment will necessarily be n+1. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
Suppose Host A is sending a large file to Host B over a TCP connection. The number of unacknowledged bytes that A sends cannot exceed the size of the receive buffer at B. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Suppose a process in Host C has a UDP socket with port number 5678. If both Host A and Host B each send a UDP segment to Host C with destination port number 5678, then the process in Host C cannot know that these two segments are originated from two different hosts. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
TCP uses end-to-end congestion control. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
The IP address 192.32.216.9 in binary notation is: 11000000 00100000 11011000 00001001 §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
A Class C IP subnet, which has a CIDR address of the form a.b.c.d/24, can accommodate about 500 hosts. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
Virtual circuit is connection-oriented. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
With IP, the order of packets received may be different from the order of the same packets sent. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Hosts and routers can use ICMP to communicate network-layer information to each other. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
The job of routing is to determine good routes from senders to receivers through the network. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
In a decentralized routing algorithm, the calculation of the least-cost path is carried out in an iterative, distributed manner. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
The link-state (LS) routing algorithm is a decentralized routing algorithm. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
With DHCP, a host may be assigned an IP address that is different each time the host is connected to the network. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
The IPv6 address space is much larger than the IPv4 address space. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
If all links in the Internet were to provide reliable delivery service, the TCP reliable delivery service would be redundant and hence not needed. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
Two-dimensional parity checks can detect and correct a single bit error. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
CRC (Cyclic Redundancy Check) detects all errors. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
Switched Ethernet uses mulitcast link. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
The maximum efficiency of slotted ALOHA is higher than the maximum efficiency of pure ALOHA. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Each adapter connected to a LAN has a unique MAC address. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
Like IP addresses, MAC addresses are also hierarchical. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
ARP (address resolution protocol) maps between IP and MAC addresses on different LANs. §§ 1 §§ True §§ False
With CSMA/CD, when a collision is detected, the transmitting node stops its transmission and uses some protocol to determine when it should attempt to transmit the next time. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False
In a CDMA protocol, each bit being sent is encoded by multiplying the bit by a signal (the code) that changes at a much faster rate than the original sequence of data bits. §§ 0 §§ True §§ False